Jordan is hosting an emergency
conference to coordinate the
humanitarian response to Israel's war on
Gaza US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is expected to attend and he's
likely to hold talks with several
Regional leaders including Jordan and
Egypt un Secretary General Antonio geles
says more humanitarian aid needs to be
allowed
in all available routs into Gaza must be
operational and the land routs are
absolutely
crucial I also welcome all coordinated
efforts to fully operationalize the
mechanism to facilitate Aid into Gaza as
mandated by Security Council resolution
2720 the international humanitarian
response in gazda has been severely
lacking with the delivery of Aid facing
obstacles at every level humanitarian
access cannot wait for a ceasefire and
cannot be subject to the political
agendas of any
party let's get an update now from
bernon Smith she's joining us now from
the the Dead Sea uh a lot of very strong
public statements being made talk to us
about what might be going on behind the
scenes that might actually facilitate
what the politicians are talking
about well Rob yeah they've all been
talking about the need particularly for
Israel to allow access through the land
corridors into Gaza that is the biggest
obstacle to humanitarian Aid getting in
and another major Obstacle of course is
the lack of a ceasefire Anthony blinkin
is here the US Secretary of State he's
already been uh had some meetings he's
met the Palestinian president Mahmud
abas and is due to speak here publicly
very shortly it's a unique rare
opportunity perhaps for him to see so
many Regional leaders in the same place
at the same time and we know he's here
as part of this all push to get a
ceasefire agreed between Israel and
Hamas now blink said earlier today in
Tel Aviv that Israel had agreed and
Benjamin Netanyahu had agreed to the
terms of this Joe Biden's proposed
ceasefire publicly though we know that
netanyahu's previously said he will
continue the fight in Gaza until he's
destroyed Hamas and his leadership
nevertheless blinken says the ownership
is now on Hamas well he believes he's
hoping that he can speak to Regional
leaders is here who can also put
pressure on Hamas to agree to a
ceasefire the cateres the Egyptians of
course are represented here they've been
the mediators between Israel uh and the
US uh and also there are other Regional
leaders here and the hope is that they
can help put this pressure but we're
still far from an agreement to a ceas
ber thank you very much indeed dad
Bernard Smith giving us that update from
the Dead
Sea make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news news from
aler